<h1>MOVIE RECOMMENDER SYSTEM USING DATA MINING AND ANALYSIS</h1>


This repository discuss about recommendations of the movies. A movie recommendation is important in our social life due to its strength in providing enhanced entertainment. Such a system can suggest a set of movies to users based on their interest, or the popularities of the movies. A recommendation system is used for the purpose of suggesting items to purchase or to see. They direct users towards those items which can meet their needs through cutting down large database of Information. A recommender system, or a recommendation system (sometimes replacing 'system' with a synonym such as platform or engine), is a subclass of information filtering system that seeks to predict the "rating" or "preference" a user would give to an item.They are primarily used in commercial applications. MOVREC also help users to find the movies of their choices based on the movie experience of other users in efficient and effective manner without wasting much time in useless browsing.


CONCLUSION: Recommender Systems have emerged as powerful tools for helping users find annd evaluate items of interest. These systems use a variety of techniques to help users identify the items that best fit their tastes or needs. While poopular CF-based algorithms continue to prodduce meaningful, personalized results in a variety of domains, data mining techniques are increassingly being used in both hybrid systems, to improove recommendations in previously successful applications, and in stand-alone recommenders, too produce accurate recommendations in previoously challenging domains. The use of data miningg algorithms has also changed the types of recoommendations as applications move from recommmending what to consume to also recommending when to consume. While recommender systems may have started as largely a passing novelty, they clearly appear to have moved into a real and powerful tool in a variety of applications, and that data mining algorithms can be and will continue to be an important part of the recommendation process.
